Lab: How bash works

Get access to a Linux machine (mlc104, your own machine, cloud9, etc.), and then answer the following questions.

1. Is the ls command part of bash itself?
	Yes

2. What happens if you type ‘which ls’?
	Gives me the path of ls (/bin/ls)

3. Is the ‘cd’ command part of bash itself?  What happens if you type ‘which cd’?
	Yes, cd is part of bash itself.
	Gives me the path of cd (/usr/bin/cd)

4. Try moving around on the command line:
	a. at the command prompt, type ‘mar bash’, but don’t hit enter
	b. go to the beginning of your command, using ctrl-a
	c. go the end of the command, using ctrl-e
	d. go back to the beginning, then move forward using ctrl-f
	e. replace the ‘r’ in ‘mar’ with ‘n’, and hit enter

5. If you create a new command ‘my_cmd’, can it be invoked through bash?
	Yes

6. Name a command-line interpreter you’ve used besides bash.

7. Try command line completion:
	a. at the command prompt, type ‘ls /usr/b’, but don’t hit enter
	b. hit tab to complete the directory name, then hit enter
	c. type ‘cd /usr/’, but don’t hit enter
	d. hit tab -- what happens?
		Nothing
	e. type ‘l’, then hit tab -- what happens?
		Nothing

8. Is ‘bash’ itself a command?  Try running command ‘bash’ while using bash.  What happens?
	Bash shell opens opens up.

9. Run command ‘ps’.  What processes are shown?
	PID TTY           TIME CMD
  	561 ttys000    0:00.08 -bash

10. Try using the command line history:
	a. change to the root directory (which is just ‘/’)
	b. type ‘cd’ and hit enter -- where are you now in the directory tree?
		My home directory
	c. type ctrl-p -- what do you see?
		cd
	d. type ctrl-p a few more times and notice what happens
		shows my command history
	e. now type ctrl-n and notice what happens
		shows the next command in my command history
	f. keep typing ctrl-n until nothing changes -- where are you in the command history now?
		in the present of history (what I will type in now)
	g. type ctrl-r, then type ls   (don’t hit enter)
	h. now type ctrl-r a few more times -- what happens?
		Give me a history of my commands containing ls

11. If you still have time, create an account at codecademy.com, and start the course ‘learn the command line’.